hi I'm Frank and you're watching hobby Q
product reviews today we're gonna be
taking a look at this turnigy 85 amp
brushless esc this esc is recommended
for medium to large-sized airplanes and
helicopters let's go ahead and take a
closer look at the CSC and then we'll go
ahead and put it to the test the turn of
gtz 85 amp brushless esc comes in a
plain white cardboard box and does not
include any of the connectors for the
motor or the battery but it does include
a very detailed instructions manual okay
now let's take a look at some of the
features of this esc this turnigy 85 amp
brushless esc has a nice big aluminum
heatsink for excellent heat dissipation
it also has plenty of holes in the
bottom of the hard plastic case to
further assist in the cooling of this
esc it features 12 gauge battery leads
and motor leads this ESC also comes with
a switch for powering your receiver on
and off now let's go over the specs this
turnigy TZ 85 amp brushless esc has a
constant current rating of 85 amps with
a burst rate of up to 100 amps for 10
seconds this ESC can handle an input of
two to six cell lithium batteries and
measures 35 millimeters by 65
millimeters by 18 millimeters and weighs
80 grams it has a built-in switching
mode VEC that has an output rating of 5
point 5 volts at 4 amps now we're ready
for some static testing I've gone ahead
and soldered some four millimeter bullet
connectors on to the motor leads and an
xt60 connector onto the battery lead
we're going to be testing this esc out
on an eighty nine millimeter duct fan
with a 1450 kV
36 millimeter brushless outrunner motor
and a 2600 milliamp v cell 40 C lithium
battery so let's go ahead and plug
everything in and then we'll go ahead
and do the static test ok we're plugged
in let's go ahead and turn it on and arm
it and then we'll go ahead and run it up
and afterwards we'll take a look at the
numbers on the wall meter
[Music]
[Applause]
okay let's go ahead and take a look at
the numbers on the want meter okay it
feels like the ESC barely got warm to
the touch and let's see what we got the
reading on the watt meter is fifty nine
point nine six amps of draw and the
voltage drop is down to eighteen point
eight three and we got eleven hundred
and fifty-seven watts of power out of it
now that I've had a chance to test this
ECL it's time for me to share some final
review thoughts with you some of the
things that I liked about the CSC is the
fact that it feels to be built pretty
robust with its 12 gauge wire leaves and
it's oversized aluminum heatsink this
ESC can really dish out the power and
take the punishment I also like the fact
that this ESC came with an on/off switch
this is great for powering on and off
your receiver especially in planes and
helicopters works a little bit more
difficult to get to the batteries as for
the performance of this ESC the throttle
range feels very linear and the throttle
response is extremely quick all in all I
have to say I was very impressed with
the performance efficiency but there is
one thing that could be an issue for
those who don't read the instructions
manual this II will not arm the first
time unless you do the automatic
throttle calibration mentioned in the
manual at the current list price of
thirty six dollars and fifty nine cents
I'd have to say that this ESC is a very
good value I would definitely recommend
it to anybody who's looking for a robust
ESC to put into 500 sized helicopters 70
to 90 millimeter EDF planes and medium
to large sized prop planes requiring up
to an 85 amp brushless esc okay guys
this concludes my review of this turnigy
TZ 85 amp brushless esc but please be
sure to visit hobbyking comm for this
hefty esc and all of your other RC
related needs until next time thanks for
watching Hawking product reviews